:toc: macro

= Deposits

ifndef::tbtc[toc::[]]

== Overview

TBTC provides a mechanism for creating a token, TBTC, on a non-Bitcoin _anchor
chain_, that is 1-to-1 backed by Bitcoin. Parties interested in minting TBTC
<<Deposit Request,request>> that the TBTC system provide them with a Bitcoin
wallet address. The system selects a set of _signers_, which are tasked with
generating a private/public keypair and furnishing it to the system. The
interested party then becomes a _depositor_ by sending Bitcoin to the wallet
(the amount of required Bitcoin is discussed separately in the section on
<<Lots,lots>>). The Bitcoin that is sent to the wallet is in two parts: one is
eligible for 1-to-1 minting into TBTC, while the other is reserved as incentive
for the wallet signers.

Each of these steps is shown in the diagram below and discussed in subsequent
sections.

image::../img/generated/initiate-deposit.png[]

== Deposit request

The starting point for acquiring TBTC is generating a _deposit request_. This is
a transaction to a smart contract on TBTC's anchor chain that informs the TBTC
system that the sender account is interested in creating a TBTC deposit. The
transaction is a signal that the sender is interested in a signing group to back
a wallet that will receive Bitcoin from a wallet the sender controls, in order
to produce TBTC. Because signing groups are not free to create, deposit requests
include a small bond in the anchor chain's native token to cover the creation of
the signing group. The bond is refunded when a successful deposit is made to the
generated wallet.

=== Signer selection

Once the deposit request is received, the signing group is created by randomly
selecting a set of _signers_ to back a Bitcoin wallet. This is a multi-part
process described in the diagram below.footnote:[The TBTC system participates
in fairly limited fashion here, mostly coordinating work done in a secondary
system responsible for managing the secure random number generation, private
data storage, and multiparty computation needed to provide the system's relevant
security properties. In this diagram, that role is fulfilled by the Keep
network, described in http://keep.network/whitepaper[its whitepaper]. The Keep
Random Beacon is described in more detail in the
http://docs.keep.network/random-beacon/[Keep Random Beacon yellowpaper].]

image::../img/generated/signing-group-creation.png[]

When a request comes in to create a signing group, the TBTC system requests a
random seed from a secure decentralized random beacon.footnote:[A system is only
as decentralized as its most centralized component, so the beacon must be
decentralized to achieve proper decentralization of the TBTC system as a whole.]
The resulting random seed is used to randomly select signing group members from
the eligible pool of signers. Finally, these signers coordinate a distributed
key generation protocol that results in a public ECDSA key for the group, which
is used to produce a wallet address that is then published to the anchor chain.
This completes the signer selection phase.

==== Deposit

Once the TBTC system has a wallet address available for a given deposit request,
the _depositor_ can issue a Bitcoin transaction sending BTC from a wallet they
control to the wallet address for the signing group. Once the transaction has
been confirmed, the depositor has to issue a transaction to the TBTC system's
anchor chain proving the deposit has occurred.

// TODO “Once the transaction has been confirmed”: need to discuss how confirmed
// TODO I guess?

== Proof of deposit

The only link between the Bitcoin chain and the anchor chain is the TBTC system,
which runs as a set of smart contracts on the anchor chain. As such, the Bitcoin
transaction issued by the depositor has to be proven to the TBTC system before
the TBTC system allows the depositor to behave as if they have successfully
deposited their TBTC into the custodial wallet. To prove this, the depositor
constructs a transaction for the anchor chain that provides proof that the
transaction was accepted on the Bitcoin chain and has had sufficient work built
on top of the block that included the deposit transaction.

When a deposit proof is accepted by the system, the deposit bond is refunded to
the depositor. If a deposit proof is not received within a given timeout window,
the signing group will disband and the system will seize the bond's value,
making it available to the signing group members to reclaim.

// TODO What is "sufficient"? Defined as a system property? Dynamic?

=== Distributed key generation

// undertaking distributed key generation
// reference to bigger DKG

// TODO wallet architecture

=== Lots

// selection by random beacon

=== Bonding

// ETH bond

=== Payment request
